[DECLUTTER USING] re-write cold wasabi (#591)
zkSNACKs/WasabiDoc: docs/using-wasabi/ColdWasabi.md

### Connecting via USB

#### Import the wallet

When Wasabi is running, the hardware wallet can be connected via USB to the same computer.
Wasabi should automatically detect the hardware, and open the `Hardware Wallet` tab where you can load the wallet.

#### Receiving bitcoin

After the first time you loaded a new device, the public keys will be stored locally on the computer, and you can use Wasabi to [receive bitcoin](/using-wasabi/Receive.md) to the hardware wallet without connecting it again.

#### Sending bitcoin

Only when you want to [send bitcoin](/using-wasabi/Send.md) do you need to connect the device over USB again.
In the `Send` tab, after selecting your coins, destination address, payment amount and fee, click the `Sign Transaction` button.
The private keys are not on the computer, thus the transaction is signed on the hardware wallet, after you confirm with a physical button click.
The final transaction is automatically broadcast over Tor with Wasabi Wallet.

### Connecting Coldcard via SD card

You can use Wasabi Wallet together with Coldcard without ever connecting it via USB, further reducing possible attack vectors.

> 

Reviewer: You might want to add a link to https://coldcardwallet.com/docs/microsd here

Author: ```suggestion
For more details see the [Coldcard documentation](https://coldcardwallet.com/docs/microsd).
```

---
{
  "title": "Cold-Wasabi Hardware Wallet Mode",
  "description": "A step by step guide on how to CoinJoin and send bitcoin to a hardware wallet for cold storage using WasabiWallet only. This is the Wasabi documentation, an archive of knowledge about the open-source, non-custodial and privacy-focused Bitcoin wallet for desktop."
}
---

# Cold-Wasabi Hardware Wallet Mode

[[toc]]

## Using hardware wallet step-by-step

1. Start your Wasabi Wallet and connect your hardware wallet with USB.
Alternatively, you can import a Coldcard skeleton file via SD card.

> 2. The `Hardware Wallet` tab will open, and show all connected hardware wallets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The `Hardware Wallet` tab will open, and there you can search all connected hardware wallets.
```

3. Click `Load Wallet`, then you can [receive](/using-wasabi/Receive.md) bitcoin to addresses controlled by the hardware wallet.
4. You can [spend](/using-wasabi/Send.md) these coins in the `Send` tab, though the hardware wallet must be connected via USB to confirm before signing the transaction.
Alternatively, you can [build a PSBT](using-wasabi/ColdWasabi.md#connecting-coldcard-via-sd-card), export this via SD card to your Coldcard wallet for signing, then import the final transaction to Wasabi for broadcasting.

:::warning No CoinJoin
Unfortunately, as of now you cannot [CoinJoin](/using-wasabi/CoinJoin.md) with just the private keys on your hardware wallet.

> The keys need to on the internet connected computer to be available to Wasabi Wallet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The keys need to be on the internet connected computer to be able to CoinJoin.
```

:::

## What is Cold Storage

Cold storage refers to keeping a reserve of bitcoin protected by private keys which are generated and stored completely offline.
This is an often-used security precaution, especially dealing with large amounts of bitcoin.
Because the private keys are not on a computer which is connected to the internet, many remote attack vectors are nullified.

Methods of cold storage include keeping private keys:

> - On a [USB drive](/using-wasabi/WasabiSetupTails.md) or other data storage medium

Reviewer 2: But what if Tails is connected to the internet?

Author: yeah, you're right...
should it be removed?

Reviewer 3: Maybe we can add a small :::warning here

Author: ```suggestion
- On a USB drive or other data storage medium
```

- On a paper wallet
- On a bearer item such as a physical bitcoin
- On a hardware wallet

## Hardware Wallet with Wasabi

> You can use Wasabi Wallet with almost any hardware wallet out there, because Wasabi utilizes [Bitcoin Core hardware wallet integration [HWI]](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/hwi).

Author: ```suggestion
You can use Wasabi Wallet with almost any hardware wallet out there, because Wasabi utilizes [Bitcoin Core Hardware Wallet Interface [HWI]](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/hwi).
```

It's actually Bitcoin Core specifically, [the software implementation], not Bitcoin in general, [the network as a whole]

The setup is thoroughly tested for [Trezor model One and T](https://trezor.io), [Ledger Nano S](https://ledgerwallet.com), [Coldcard](https://coldcardwallet.com).

### Connecting via USB

> #### Import the wallet

Author: Well, the private public keys are already created on the hardware wallet... What is done now is to import the already created public keys...

Verify the transaction details shown on the Coldcard, and approve the transaction for signing.
After this, unplug the micro SD card from Coldcard and plug it into the computer.
In Wasabi, click on the top menu `Tools` and then `Transaction Broadcaster`.
In this tab, select `Import PSBT`, lookup the SD card with the final signed transaction, and click `OK`.
Then click `Broadcast Transaction`, and Wasabi will privately announce it to the Bitcoin network.

![](/PSBTBroadcast.png)

## Cold-Wasabi protocol

This is how you can safely eat cold Wasabi, or store your coins on a hardware wallet after one or more rounds of CoinJoin using Wasabi Wallet.
Because you cannot yet do CoinJoin with private keys on the hardware wallet, you will need generate and load two different Wasabi Wallets.
A 'Hot' (CoinJoin) and a 'Cold' (Storage) Wasabi Wallet instance will both be running side-by-side, label them accordingly so you don't mix them up.

### CoinJoin on the hot Wasabi

:::tip First
you will want to make your existing coins private.
It is useful to generate a complete new hot wallet for this, so as to keep the CoinJoin transaction history separate from other wallets.

> :::

Reviewer 2: I think we should remove this tip.
If someone doesn't have a Wasabi wallet then they have to create a new one anyway, and if they have one already then there is no need to create a new one.

1. [Generate a new Hot-Wasabi Wallet](/using-wasabi/WalletGeneratation.md).

> 2. Open the [Receive](/using-wasabi/Receive.md) tab to get a new addresis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Open the [Receive](/using-wasabi/Receive.md) tab to get a new address.
```

3. From a pre-existing wallet, send bitcoin into this Hot-Wasabi Wallet.

> 4. In the [CoinJoin](/using-wasabi/CoinJoin.md) tab, select the relevant coins and enqueue them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. In the [CoinJoin](/using-wasabi/CoinJoin.md) tab, select the relevant coins, enqueue them, and wait for the CoinJoin to be done.
```

> Remix often so as to gain a high anonymity set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Remix often to gain a high anonymity set.
```

### Setup your cold Wasabi

> :::tip Second

Reviewer 2: If the previous tip is removed then consider renaming this tip.

> In order to separate these new private coins, you will want to generate a fresh wallet on your hardware device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to separate these new private coins, you should generate a fresh wallet on your hardware device.
```

:::

> 5. Generate and backup a new and unused set of keys on your hardware wallet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Generate and backup a new set of keys on your hardware wallet.
```

> 6. Load your hardware wallet device to Wasabi, either via USB or SD card. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Load your hardware wallet device to Wasabi, either via USB or SD card.
```

7. Label and generate a receive address for the hardware wallet.
For the first setup you need to connect the hardware wallet to the computer that runs Wasabi, afterwards you can generate receive addresses without the device being connected.
8. Copy the receiving address from the cold-Wasabi.

### Send bitcoins from hot to cold Wasabi

> :::tip Thrid

Reviewer 2: same comment about the tip

> In order to keep the mixed coins separate and without revealing that you own all of them, send the anonymity set coins without consolidating them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to keep the mixed coins separate and without revealing that you own all of them, send the mixed coins without consolidating them.
```

Author: ```suggestion
In order to keep the mixed coins separate and without revealing that you own all of them, send the <img src="/ShieldCheckmark.png" alt="checkmark" class="shield" /> coins without consolidating them.
```

visual explanation is good

Wait some time in-between sending them, so that timing analysis becomes more difficult.
:::

9. Go to the hot-Wasabi `Send` tab, and select the coins with high anonymity set.

> Do not consolidate all your <img src="/ShieldCheckmark.png" alt="checkmark" class="shield" /> coins, but send them in small, time-staggered batches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do not consolidate your <img src="/ShieldCheckmark.png" alt="checkmark" class="shield" /> coins, but send them in small, time-staggered batches.
```

10. Paste the cold-Wasabi address.

> 11. Select the amount to be sent, consider using the `MAX` button to avoid change.

Reviewer 2: Since we are sending a mixed coin to a hardware wallet address we should use Max button here.
```suggestion
11. Click the `MAX` button to send the whole mixed coin.
```

### Send bitcoins from cold Wasabi

:::tip Finally
You can at any time spend the bitcoin from the cold Wasabi.
:::

12. Connect your hardware wallet to the computer.
13. Load the cold Wasabi wallet.

> 14. Go to the `Send`, select the coins and destination, then sign the transaction with click on the hardware wallet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
14. Go to the `Send`, select the coins and destination, then sign the transaction with the hardware wallet.
```

> Alternatively go to the `Build Transaction` tab and do the Coldcard SD card workflow. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively go to the `Build Transaction` tab and do the Coldcard SD card workflow.
```

![](/PSBTUnsigned.png)

Unplug your SD card from the computer and put it into your Coldcard.
Then, in the Coldcard main menu click on `Ready to Sign`.
Verify the transaction details shown on the Coldcard, and approve the transaction for signing.
After this, unplug the micro SD card from Coldcard and plug it into the computer.
In Wasabi, click on the top menu `Tools` and then `Transaction Broadcaster`.
In this tab, select `Import Transaction`, lookup the SD card with the final signed transaction, and click `OK`.
Then click `Broadcast Transaction`, and Wasabi will privately announce it to the Bitcoin network.

![](/PSBTBroadcast.png)

## Cold-Wasabi protocol

This is how you can safely eat cold Wasabi, or store your coins on a hardware wallet after one or more rounds of CoinJoin using Wasabi Wallet.
Because you cannot do CoinJoin with the private keys on the hardware wallet, you will need to generate and load two different Wasabi Wallets.
A 'Hot' (CoinJoin) and a 'Cold' (Storage) Wasabi Wallet instances will both be running side-by-side, label them accordingly so you don't mix them up.

### CoinJoin on the hot Wasabi

:::tip First

> you will want to make your existing coins private.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should make your existing coins private.
```
